
# Introduction

Minikube is a tool that lets you run Kubernetes locally. Minikube runs a single-node Kubernetes cluster on your personal computer (including Windows, macOS and Linux PCs) so that you can try out Kubernetes, or for daily development work.

# Installation

## Windows OS

### Oracle VirtualBox

Minikube needs virtualization, this is why we will be using the Oracle VirtualBox. In order to download the virtualBox, go to the following link and choose windows: https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads

### Kubectl

The first step is to download kubectl on your machine. To do so, open your terminal and run the following curl command: 
```
curl -LO "https://dl.k8s.io/release/v1.23.0/bin/windows/amd64/kubectl.exe"
```
To ensure that the download is validated, run the following command:
```
kubectl version --client
```

### Minikube

To download Minikube, go to the following link and choose the windows 64 amd version to download : https://v1-18.docs.kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-minikube/

After it has been downloaded, change the folder name to minikube, then create a new folder in C:/ called minikube, then move the downloaded folder to this new folder that we created. 

Copy the path of the new minikube folder created in C:/, then add the path to the environmental variable $PATH, to be able to use minikube on the command line.

After restarting your terminal, run the following command to check if minikube is now downloaded:
```
minikube version
```
Now that we have minikube and VirtualBox ready, run the following command to create the cluster:

```
minikube start --driver=virtualbox
```
This command created a new virtual machine on the virtual box. Now that the cluster is created, you can verify its status by running the following command:
```
minikube status
```
or
```
kubectl get all
```
Our local machine is in the same time the master node and the control plane.





